---
title: 2023
weight: 17
---

# Release Notes 2023

## 2023-01-09

[EL7 pinned repo](/circonus/on-premises/installation/installation/#el7-repo):
`baseurl=http://updates.circonus.net/centos/7/release-20230109/x86_64/`

### ca

Version: 0.1.1630083710 (f5879e1)

* No changes since [2021-09-06](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/2021#2021-09-06)


### caql_broker

Version: 0.1.1665503401 (06b870f)

* No changes since [2022-08-22](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/2022#2022-08-22)


### data_storage

Related roles: caql_broker, fault_detection, stratcon

Version: 0.1.1671716605 (43d6c90)

**Function Removal Notice**

> Metric Search v2 and Metric Clusters have been deprecated for some time.  We
> plan to remove these deprecated functions soon for the SaaS site, and in the
> subsequent Inside release. This will affect CAQL checks as well as CAQL
> Datapoints on graphs. The UI will now show users a warning when one of the
> deprecated functions is used. Circonus offers a more powerful tag-search
> feature, exposed as `find()` in CAQL.

* (CAQL) Add `fill:forward(limit=DUR)` that will limit filling to the specified
  duration. (CIRC-9556)
* (CAQL) Add `fill=forward:<ms>` as a `/fetch` param and tie into the
  optimizer. (CIRC-9556)
* Add cluster-wide version tracking for `/fetch` to prevent CAQL
  over-optimization during upgrades. (CIRC-9540)
* Fix handling of error returns when reading jlog records. (CIRC-9464)
* (snowthd) Discard incoming metrics that match the
  `//snowth//discard_data_filters/discard_data_filter` configured for the
  corresponding account, e.g., `<discard_data_filter account="1234"
  filter="and(__storage:false)"/>` (CIRC-9298)
* (stratcon raw_ingestor) Discard incoming metrics that match an account's
  configured `//snowth//swimlane/account_map/map/@discard_data_filter` value.
  (CIRC-9299)
* New level index format (v4) that allows for faster loads and lowers memory
  usage.  This requires regenerating the indexes on the first startup after
  upgrade. (CIRC-9359)


### fault_detection

Version: 0.1.1670014326 (9767eb8)

* Allow configuring a special eventer pool, `ruleset_cull`, to offload cull
  operations into a separate eventer pool with a configurable watchdog.
  (CIRC-9244)


### FQ

Related roles: caql_broker, fault_detection, mq, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.13.10

* No changes since [2021-05-03](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/2021#2021-05-03)


### GoAPI

Related roles: api

Version: 0.14.23

* Further improve response time for `/alert` requests with results containing
  inactive alerts. Limits the results from the `/alert` endpoint to only
  displaying alerts which occurred within the past 30 days by default. This can
  be overridden by passing a `(occurred_on_start:xxx)` search term in the
  request. (C3-374)
* Update the `/check_bundle` endpoint to treat check configuration keys with a
  value of `""` as intentions to remove the configuration key, if the key
  corresponds to an optional check module parameter. (CIRC-9471)
* Fix IRONdb nodes not being returned to active status after a period of being
  down or inactive. (CIRC-9467)
* Fix bug in contact group validation for groups containing email contacts.
  (CIRC-9467)
* Implement a connection pool for broker connections, limiting a single API
  node to a max number of connections to a single broker instance (default 20).
  (CIRC-9425)
* Add new search terms to the `/alert` endpoint (C3-227):
  * `occurred_on_start` and `occurred_on_end` accept Unix epoch timestamps and
    will filter results based on an `occurred_on` range for the alert.
  * `cleared_on_start` and `cleared_on_end`, which work the same way as the
    `occurred_on` filters but for alert `cleared_on` times. If
    `cleared_on_start` or `cleared_on_end` are used as search terms, the
    results will automatically be limited to cleared alerts.
* Update logic for submitting filtersets to brokers, matching the behavior when
  submitting checks. This fixes an inconsistency when the broker issues a
  redirect, and the target is not yet ready to receive it. (CIRC-9425)
* Fix duplicate check creation in the `/check_bundle` endpoint when a check
  target is being changed. (CIRC-9432)
* Fix for certain `/graph` endpoints not being cleared when set to `""`.
  (CIRC-9417, CIRC-9429)
* XML check definintions will now include all `xmlns` definitions in all cases.
  (CIRC-9416)
* Add a new `event_criteria_id` search term for the `/alert` endpoint.  This
  can be used to search for alerts by rule set or rule set group ID. It
  supports aliases for other search terms to support compatibility with the
  Perl API. For example: `(ruleset_id:123)` will search using this term.
  (C3-280)
* Improve the way that redirects from broker REST calls are handled, in order
  to correct a bug that led to invalid errors being returned by the
  `/check_bundle` endpoint, when creating checks on some broker cluster
  configurations. (CIRC-9403)
* Implement improved SQL database tracing and stats recording, and implement
  new SQL error metrics to provide better insight into database errors.
  (CIRC-9403)


### Hooper

Version: 0.1.1666013286 (212c56d)

* No changes since [2022-10-17](/circonus/on-premises/changelog/2022#2022-10-17)


### libmtev

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 2.3.9

* Support `addext` field under OpenSSL 1.0. (CIRC-9304)


### notification

Version: 0.1.1671648269 (f699763)

* No user-facing changes.


### Reconnoiter

Related roles: broker, caql_broker, data_storage, fault_detection, stratcon, web_stream

Version: 0.1.1670447886 (3de5442)

* (broker, libnoit) Fix handling of tags that are too long. (CIRC-9495)
* (broker) Improved filterset and check database error logging.
* (broker) Performance improvements to check and filterset handling:
  * Move check validation from main eventer into a jobq.
  * Move filterset deletion from main eventer into a jobq.
  * Move filterset culling from main eventer into a jobq.
  * Move check deletion from main eventer into a jobq.
  * Move check recycler from main eventer into a jobq.
  * Move filterset updates from main eventer into a jobq.
  * Improve locking when looking for pending check deletes.


### Web UI/API

Version: 0.1.1671553753 (7546744)

* Fix bugs with broker reconstitution involving clusters and the `broker` check
  module. (CIRC-9557)
* Fix broker config reconciliation bug due to lowercase HTTP headers.
  (CIRC-9480)
* Uptime reports will now find alert history for metrics with or without
  stream tags. Previously only metrics with stream tags were found. (CIRC-9508)


### web_stream

Version: 0.1.1668802755 (38de609)

* Crash fix (heap use-after-free). (CIRC-9438)
